(ALEX) Woah... easy now,
those legs look way stronger
than the others.
And it didn't just fall here...
it must have jumped.
Yeah... this is gonna be
painful.
How 'bout we make this
interesting...
and level the playing field.
[chirping]
Ah!
[grunt]
[moaning and gasping for air]
[gasps]
Oh, son of a bitch!
(AKARI) Alex!
[gasp]
Let's go!
[heavy breathing]
What's it doing?
[gasp]
Should we... attack it...
now?
It's... just sitting there...
maybe if we all...
What?
[gasps and panic]
Oh no!
[chirping and hissing]
Nice!
(NARRATOR) Thread...
traditional martial artists have
used it for centuries.
Millitaries around the globe
exploite the material with
offensive and defensive
technologies.
In the natural world the
material is a means of
survival.
Curiously, the thread with the
greatest durability belongs to
an organism that does not weave
a web
or cast it to capture prey.
Instead, it relys on two
incrediably resiliant threads.
Compared with a strand of
spider silk, its thread can
withstand two and a half times
the normal weight.
This elusive creature is...
Japan's Eumeta japonica
An endandured species of the
bagworm moth.
(AKARI) Thanks for keeping him
busy.
Sorry I left you hangin'.
It's my turn to join the fun.
06 2 MINUTES
(AKARI) By the way...
What are all your feelings on
skydiving?
Well I'm sure if you've got a
plan then, I guess we'll all be
ok...
No way! Not a damn chance!
[chuckle]
I don't care how good looking
you are I'm not jumping!
[scream]
[screams]
Now then...
Some seriously powerful legs
you've got there.
You sprint much?... Or is it
squats?
Or maybe, a little power yoga?
Naw, on second thought, you
don't strike me as the type.
Could you be... a grasshopper?
We're getting deep.
This things hands...
They're like suction cups.
And its bristled legs are
clearly adapted for swimming.
This dorsal structure is
different from the others.
Its entire body is specialized
for underwater combat. I'm not
dealing with some roach...
More like... a diving beetle?
Is it possible a few water
beetles somehow snuck into the
batch of cockroaches released on
Mars five hundred years ago?
But Mars had no water back
then... Resiliant bastard.
[chuckle] The lack of oxygen
must be messing with my head.
[growl]
Unless... no! Impossible!
2 YEARS AGO
(AKARI) Someone from the
previous crew?
Did they...
tamper with the corpses?
[grunt]
You're not taking this vehicle.
I'll have you
dead in two minutes.
[sigh] This is my typical luck.
I never had a father.
I was bullied
cause we were poor.
And every guy I've ever met was
either ugly, cocky, or trying to
throw me from a flying vehicle!
[scream and gasp]
A little early
to be throwing in the towel
don't ya think?
Don't tease.
Uh... Alex?
[screams and panicking]
[straining]
Sorry Akari.
You're gonna have
to hold him off just a little
while longer.
You'll be okay.
[punch and grunt]
You have to be...
[growling]
[grunt]
[groaning in pain]
[growling]
(NARRATOR) The tide has turned.
A realization hits her.
The roaches, they've repurposed
the corpses of the Bugs 2 crew.
Her shrewd conclusion shakes
her to the core.
Stunned, Michelle is dragged
deeper into the abyss.
Her foe is a decended of the
preditory diving beetle,
an aquatic insect,
equipped with suction pads
and fin like rear legs.
The beetle employs a unique
method of breathing underwater.
It submerges with air stored
between its wings and back.
This air pocket however, is
more than mearly a reservoir.
As carbon dioxide pressure
increases the respiration, the
gas is exchanged for oxygen.
This is how the beetle can
survive underwater without
gills for more then 10 minutes
at a time.
The average land mamal, humans
included, can tolerate oxygen
deprivation for only two minutes
before losing conciousness.
Worse yet for Michelle,
she cannot activate her blast
ant ability if the temperature
of both the enemy's body and
surrounding water is too low.
Her chances of survival are
dwindling.
As reality sets in, Michelle
takes action.
[timer beeps]
By using her legs as a vise, she
locks one fin beneath the other
and immobalizes her opponant,
remaining completely still.
She counts... two minutes.
SUFFOCATION: STAGE 1
After several seconds, oxygen
reserves are depleted.
A build up of carbon dioxide in
the blood causes increased
discomfort.
SUFFOCATION: STAGE 2
Blood pressure rises. Muscle
spasms develop, along with
cyanosis and incontinence.
SUFFOCATION: STAGE 3
Prolonged oxygen deprovation
brings about the lose of
conciousness.
Muscle spasms cease as the body
enters a state of emergancy.
Cockroaches feel no pain and so
Michelle's foe has become
puzzled.
Its normally aquatic legs are
suddenly now unable to move.
This works to Michelle's favor.
With pain receptors, it would
writhe in agony...
its screams drowned out only by
the fridged deep.
And Michelle would not be able
to remain in control.
But, without a sense of pain, it
does not realize that being held
in the "figure-four leg lock"...
causes bone fracture after
just two minutes.
Despite her intensive cardio
vascular training, Michelle has
been rendered cognitively
unaware.
The prolonged oxygen deprovation
has repressed her instinct
to release her leg lock and
ascend  to the lake's surface.
By Stage 4, recovery is
highly unlikely...
Beyond it, only death awaits.
[heavy gasping]
You saved us.
She still hasn't come up.
Akari!
[gasp]
[chirping and hissing]
(AKARI) Surprised?
Scaled to a human size...
a grasshoppers legs are
powerful enough to leap over
buildings.
So you must be wondering why
you can't break every bone in my
body.
Why you can't destroy me.
It must be driving you mad not
to be able to tear me limb from
limb.
I'll tell you why.
It's because you're a worthless
roach.
And I wager...
the Bugs 2 locust was way more
of a bad ass than you.
Sure, you may be strong, agile,
and resiliant...
and you may have found away to
operate our vehicles...
hell, I wouldn't be surprised if
maybe one of you taught the
others...
a sort of "leader".
That leader has complete comand
over all of you.
And beacuse you follow so
diligently...
I assume your leader has a plan.
[wincing in pain]
Your intelligence and strength
are serious threats, I'll give
you that.
But when it comes to fighting,
you're nothing but rookies.
Nothing compared to me!
Hey...
What's wrong?
Having trouble trying to kick me
this close?
Let me show you how it's done!
The first year of training is
about form and flexability.
Your basics suck!
[losing balance]
[heavy breathing]
[chirping and hissing]
Stay down!
Like I said, you're not stopping
this vehicle.
I adjusted the length, just
in case.
Not that I'm doubting MIchelle's
skill.
She's an officer, she must have
made it out in time.
And if not, well...
Ah, Akari, you clever bastard.
Time's up! Let's go!
Hey, standing might not be a
good idea.
And that's called inertia.
Ya know, science?
It's something your leader
likely hasn't gotten around to
teaching you yet.
You can see it's pretty useful.
A jumping grasshopper is one
thing, but a cockroach flying
with open wings, that's a
bullseye.
Heads up!
[chuckle]
That little beauty wasn't even
from my operation.
Difficult to learn, even harder
to master, that was the
legendary curveball. First
performed in 1867,
courtesy of the Magnus effect.
That won't be on the test.
Incoming message?
Someone's in trouble!
(SYLVESTER) If my memory serves
me,
the operation manual states
that all non-combatant crew
members must remain with
the escape vehicle.
(IVAN) This squad doesn't have
an non-comabatants sir.
(SYLVESTER) That settles it.
We're going to halt Rahab's
legacy ourselves.
to be continued
07 CRAB